---
layout: post
title: Linux Kernel Development Diary 3
date: 2026-03-26
categories: linux-kernel
---

# Third Tutorial
For the third entry of this series of posts, the tutorial is named "Introduction to Linux kernel build configuration and modules". Again, the name is self-explainable.<br>
Briefly, we created a simple kernel module (code that is not embedded in the monolithic kernel binary) that prints strings when loaded and unloaded from the VM.<br>
This time, there were no complications (other than the undefined VM_MOUNT_POINT, but its value was easily inferable). The solution to the unresponsive VM - which I thought was not loading, but was - was to force getting the IP address and connect to it via SSH, which I did nor manage to accomplish in the last diary.<br>
Even though it did work, a friend of mine told me to make some adjusts on the *kw build --menu* so the *virsh --console \<VM\>* worked as expected. Since then I did not run into any problems like the last one.<br>
<br>
The implementation, compilation, building and deploying of the module in the kernel was quite simple, fast and easy to understand. Everything worked as expected.<br><br>

# Fourth Tutorial
This tutorial is a little extension of the third.<br>
It simply implements another module that depends on the module created on the one created then. By loading ir with *modprobe*, it also loads the other module.<br>
I think the greatest thing in this tutorial was to compile and deploy the module without help - that is, having to use the commands already seen in other tutorials, specially the third one.
