---
layout: post
title: Linux Kernel Development Diary 2
date: 2026-03-19
categories: linux-kernel
---

# Second Tutorial
This diary refers to the second FLUSP's tutorial on Linux Kernel development basics.<br>
Entitled "Building and booting a custom Linux kernel for ARM using kw", it is possible to infer what this entry is about.<br>

In this tutorial we cloned the IIO tree, the subsystem we will work in the current discipline cycle.<br>
We then used kw to help modifying, building and deploying the custom kernel we built during the tutorial. The customization revolved around changing the kernel name, adding a suffix of the student's preference (I chose "-REVSTU").<br><br>

Before explaining the difficulties arosed when following this tutorial, I must first explain briefly the script to activate the virtual environment.<br>
The "*activate.sh*" contains some function definitions that help create and initialize a VM. These functions have definitions about image locations, filesystem path and others. For building and deploying a custom kernel, to change some of these definitions was necessary.<br>
With this in mind, everything went well until the creation of the VM with the custom kernel.<br>
After running the function defined on the virtual environment script named "create_vm_virsh()", altered in this tutorial, the VM would simply not load. Even though I tried to connect with SSH and virsh, nothing worked. I could not get the VM's IP address nor the virsh console would work.<br>
In front of these complications, I followed the first tutorial again - partialy - so I could run the VM again and try the second tutorial once more. It worked.<br>
As a precaution, I now keep a "backup.sh" in case everything stops working again.
